Herv
================
Annie Borch
Sepetmber 23, 2020

  - [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  - [Data decription](#data-decription)
  - [Bin Description](#bin-description)

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

## Project Overview

Directory for this publication: Human endogenous retroviruses form a
reservoir of T cell targets in hematological cancers

### Abstract

Human endogenous retroviruses (HERV) form a substantial part of the
human genome, but mostly remain transcriptionally silent under strict
epigenetic regulation, yet can potentially be reactivated by malignant
transformation or epigenetic therapies. Here we evaluate the potential
for T cell recognition of HERV elements in myeloid malignancies by
mapping transcribed HERV genes and generating a library of 1,169
potential antigenic HERV-derived peptides predicted for presentation by
4 HLA class I molecules. Using DNA barcode-labeled MHC-I multimers, we
find CD8+ T cell populations recognizing 29 HERV-derived peptides
representing 18 different HERV loci, of which HERVH-5, HERVW-1, and
HERVE-3 have more profound responses; such HERV-specific T cells are
present in 17 of the 34 patients, but less frequently in healthy donors.
Transcriptomic analyses reveal enhanced transcription of the HERVs in
patients; meanwhile DNA-demethylating therapy causes a small and
heterogeneous enhancement in HERV transcription without altering T cell
recognition. Our study thus uncovers T cell recognition of HERVs in
myeloid malignancies, thereby implicating HERVs as potential targets for
immunotherapeutic therapies.

## Data decription

### Raw\_expression\_data

All extracted genes made from 1.Handle\_expressio\_data.R.

### Plot data

All data used for the final plots

## Bin Description

### 1.Handle\_expressio\_data.R

This script will extract different gene signature and gene sets from the
RNA data

### 2.HERV\_PaperPlots\_FinalRivision.R

This script is used for all plots according to the RNA expression
profile and TCR recognition analysis

### Contact informations

  - Annie Borch (annbor) <annbor@dtu.dk>
